---
layout: page
title: "How to protect your identity and access the project anonymously"
permalink: /18-10-2024
title: "How to protect your identity and access the project anonymously"
date: 18-10-2024
author_profile: true
author: Luke
collection: news
classes: wide

header:
  teaser: kick-off-1.jpg
  header: /assets/images/kick-off-1.jpg
  og-image: /assets/images/kick-off-1.jpg
---

How to protect my identity and access the sevice anonymously
We understand that our program addresses highly sensitive and potentially stigmatized issues. That is why we provide a little guide on how to maintain your privacy when accessing our and other services. Keep on mind, there is no 100% but ways to get close.

Private Browsing
Start by using your web browser's private or incognito mode. This mode doesn't save your browsing history, cookies, site data, or information entered in forms, thereby enhancing your privacy. For an even more secure browsing experience, consider using browsers that prioritize user privacy, like Mozilla Firefox or Brave.

Different browsers have different methods to enable private or incognito mode:

Google Chrome: Press Ctrl+Shift+N
Mozilla Firefox: Press Ctrl+Shift+P
Safari: Press Command+Shift+N
Microsoft Edge: Press Ctrl+Shift+N
Brave Browser: Press Ctrl+Shift+N
Use a VPN or Tor Browser
A Virtual Private Network (VPN) or The Onion Router (Tor) can hide your IP address, making your online actions virtually untraceable. Here's a comparison for some of these services:

Recomendable options are Tor Browser (https://www.torproject.org), MULLVAD VPN (https://mullvad.net), Express VPN (https://www.expressvpn.com), and Proton VPN (https://proton.me). The level of anonymity is generally high for all of them, they have DNS Leak Protection or it's inherent due to the network design for the TOR Browser. They do not log any data, but differ in terms of speed and cost. While Tor Browser is free, but relatively slow due to the network design, it is still fast enough to use our services. All VPN Providers come with moderate to high speed and cost about 5 to 10 Euro per month.

If you are primarily concerned about anonymity and do not mind slower connection speeds, Tor is a great, free option. If you need a faster connection and are willing to pay for a premium service, we recommend ProtonVPN for its combination of security features and cost-effectiveness.

- How to use a VPN
- Download and install the VPN application on your computer or mobile device.
- Open the VPN application and connect to a server. This can typically be done with a single click.
- How to use the Tor Browser
- Visit the Tor Project's official website (https://www.torproject.org/) and download the Tor Browser. It is available for Windows, MacOS, Linux, and Android.
- Open the Tor Browser and start browsing. Your connection to our website will be private and anonymized.
- How to get an anonymous email adress
- If you would like to provide an email address, consider creating a new one that does not include your name or any identifiable information. There is a great opportunity to communicate anonymously. Providers like ProtonMail (https://proton.me) offer free, encrypted email services without the need to provide personal information. 

Do not use providers such as Google or Microsoft for anonymous or confidential communication, as they automatically search for abuse-related content.

Reminder
Remember, the goal of these instructions is to enhance your privacy, but they can not offer complete anonymity. It is essential to remain mindful of what you share online and use these tools to add additional layers of privacy. Your comfort, privacy, and security are our top priorities. If you have any questions or need further assistance, please contact our support team via the message center in your personal login area or via email: VERANDA-Study@protonmail.com
